
           Description of program

 MiniGraph is produced graphing and tables of the values of the functions
 of form Y1=f(x) and Y2=f(x), assigned in the rectangular coordinate system.
 Where f(x) - algebraic expression of arbitrary complexity.
 It reflects the tables of the values of argument and functions.
 It have possible to preserve graph and table in the files.
 Changing interval and step of a change in the argument, it is possible
 to analyze the individual sections of graph.
 It is convenient to use for the graphical solution of the system of equations
 and checking of different algebraic conversions.

 Program window have a four areas.

 SELECT - contain: 
  - Revealed list of the selection of the user functions.
  - Collection of the buttons for enter of the standard functions
  - Collection of the buttons for enter of the constants
    With the selection of function, constants the corresponding value will be
    brought into the position of the cursor of the active field of the expression.
    User functions are located in the file "userfun.txt".
    This file can be edited (with notepad). It is possible to bring in the separate
    fragments of function, using the rules of the writing accepted in the program.

 FUNCTIONS - contain: 
  - Fields for enter of the expressions Y1 and Y2
    With the activation of field it is separated by the white color.
    Fields have the standard menu of editing (right button of mouse)
    The register of introduction does not have a value.

 ARGUMENT - contain:
  - the field for enter of the range of a change in the argument ( X ) 
  - the field for enter of the step of a change in the argument ( X )
    Range and step of argument is mutually connected with the maximum number of points.

 SETTINGS  - contain:
  - the element of switching angular measure
  - the elements of the installation of the special features of mapping the graph

 Usage:
    Collect the expression of function from the keyboard or with the aid of
    the buttons of the selection. 
    Select the interval of the values of the argument.
    Select the step of changes in the argument.
    Press the button  < To build the graph >.
    Graph is ready!
    Moving the indicator of the table of values it is possible to see the displacement
    of marker on the graph in accordance with the values of the table.
    For retaining of graph and table use the buttons of the retention.
    Graph remains in the format BMP
    Table remains in the format RTF (Word) or XLS (Excel)
    File name graph_+(1...n) at folder ..\GRAPH  
    Program makes it possible to use its own set of user functions.
    Functions are located in the text file userfun.txt.
    Functions are written with the aid of the text editor (for example, notepad),
    each into one line. 

 Used functions 
   Sin(x)		-  sine of angle x    
   Cos(x)		-  cosine of angle x  
   Tg(x)		-  tangent of angle x 
   ArcS(x)		-  arcsine x    
   ArcC(x)		-  arccosine x 
   ArcT(x)		-  arctangent x 
   DR(x)		-  translation from degree to radian
   RD(x)		-  translation from radian to degree
   Lg(x)		-  decimal logarithm
   Ln(x)		-  natural logarithm
   ABS(x)		-  absolute value
   Sqr(x)               -  square root 

 Example of system of equations
   Expressions are written with the application of arithmetic operations and brackets.
   The sign of multiplication (*) between the coefficient and the argument (x)
   it is possible not to place.
   For example:
   System of equations
   Y1=Sin(x)+Sin(x/2)+Sin(x/4)+Sin(x/8)
   Y2=(x^2)/4-3x-12
   Range -5.0 < X > 1.0   Step 0.01
   Angles in radians
   Solution  X = -2.63

 CONTACTS:
   Homepage    http://www.slmini.narod.ru
   E-mail             serlogosh@yandex.ru
